docs/introduction/installation-guide.md, before:

# Installation Guide
This guide provides instructions how to install Shopsys Framework on your local machine as a server.
If you would like to use a prepared Docker container instead go to [Installation Using Docker](installation-using-docker.md).

## Requirements
First of all, you need to install the following software on your system:

* [GIT](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
* [PostgreSQL 9.4](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Detailed_installation_guides) (On Windows OS, we recommend to use [EnterpriseDB PostgreSQL distribution](https://www.enterprisedb.com/downloads/postgres-postgresql-downloads#windows))
* [PHP 7.x](http://php.net/manual/en/install.php) (configure your `php.ini` by [Required PHP Configuration](required-php-configuration.md))
* [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md#globally)
* [Node.js 4.x](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
* [npm 2.x](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (npm is automatically installed when you install Node.js)

*Note: The names link to the appropriate installation guide or download page.* 

After that, you can follow the steps below in order to install and configure Shopsys Framework.

## Steps
### 1. Get source code
```
git clone https://git.shopsys-framework.com/shopsys/shopsys-framework.git
cd shopsys-framework
```

### 2. Install dependencies and configure parameters
```
composer install
```

Composer will prompt you to set main parameters (`app/config/parameters.yml`):

| Name                              | Description                                                                   |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `database_host`                   | access data of your PostgreSQL database                                       |
| `database_port`                   | ...                                                                           |
| `database_name`                   | ...                                                                           |
| `database_user`                   | ...                                                                           |
| `database_password`               | ...                                                                           |
| `database_server_version`         | version of your PostgreSQL server                                             |
| `mailer_transport`                | access data of your mail server                                               |
| `mailer_host`                     | ...                                                                           |
| `mailer_user`                     | ...                                                                           |
| `mailer_password`                 | ...                                                                           |
| `mailer_disable_delivery`         | set to `true` if you don't want to send any e-mails                           |
| `mailer_master_email_address`     | set if you want to send all e-mails to one address (useful for development)   |
| `mailer_delivery_whitelist`       | set if you want to have master e-mail but allow sending to specific addresses |
| `error_reporting_email_to`        | e-mail address that will be used as recipient for error reports               |
| `error_reporting_email_from`      | e-mail address that will be used as sender for error reports                  |
| `secret`                          | randomly generated secret token                                               |

Composer will then prompt you to set parameters for testing environment (`app/config/parameters_test.yml`):

| Name                              | Description                                                                   |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `test_database_host`              | access data of your PostgreSQL database for tests                             |
| `test_database_port`              | ...                                                                           |
| `test_database_name`              | ...                                                                           |
| `test_database_user`              | ...                                                                           |
| `test_database_password`          | ...                                                                           |
| `test_mailer_transport`           | access data of your mail server for tests                                     |
| `test_mailer_host`                | ...                                                                           |
| `test_mailer_user`                | ...                                                                           |
| `test_mailer_password`            | ...                                                                           |

#### Choose environment type
For development choose `n` when asked `Build in production environment? (Y/n)`.

It will set the environment in your application to `dev` (this will, for example, show Symfony Web Debug Toolbar).

### 3. Configure domains
Create `domains_urls.yml` from `domains_urls.yml.dist`.
```
cp app/config/domains_urls.yml.dist app/config/domains_urls.yml
```
### 4. Create databases
```
php phing db-create
php phing test-db-create
```
### 5. Build application
```
php phing build-demo-dev
php phing img-demo
```
**For solutions to commonly encountered problems during build see section [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) below or you might want to check [Required PHP Configuration](required-php-configuration.md).**

*Tip: See introduction into [Phing Targets](phing-targets.md) to learn how can you easily accomplish some common tasks.*

### 6. Run integrated HTTP server
```
php bin/console server:run
```
*Note: If you did not use default domain URLs in step 4 you should run `php bin/console server:run <your-domain-address>`.*

### 7. See it in your browser!
Open [http://127.0.0.1:8000/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/) to see running application.

You can also login into the administration section on [http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/) with default credentials:
* Username: `admin` or `superadmin` (the latter has access to advanced options)
* Password: `admin123`

## Troubleshooting
Here are some issues you may encounter during installation and how to solve them: 

### Phing target db-drop fails because database user is not an owner of schema "public"
Error message:
```
[Doctrine\DBAL\Exception\DriverException]
An exception occurred while executing 'DROP SCHEMA IF EXISTS public CASCADE':
SQLSTATE[42501]: Insufficient privilege: 7 ERROR:  must be owner of schema public
```

Default owner of schema `public` in any new database is user `postgres`.

In order to enable Phing to drop schema `public` you must change the ownership of public schema in your database by running the following command:
```
psql --username postgres --dbname <database_name> --command "ALTER SCHEMA public OWNER TO <database_user>"
psql --username postgres --dbname <test_database_name> --command "ALTER SCHEMA public OWNER TO <database_user>"
```

### Phing target db-create fails on MissingLocaleException
Error message:
```
[Shopsys\ShopBundle\Command\Exception\MissingLocaleException]                                                                                    
It looks like your operating system does not support locale "cs_CZ.utf8". Please visit docs/introduction/installation-guide.md for more details.

[Doctrine\DBAL\Exception\DriverException]                                                                           
An exception occurred while executing 'CREATE COLLATION pg_catalog."cs_CZ" (LOCALE="cs_CZ"."utf8")':                  
SQLSTATE[22023]: Invalid parameter value: 7 ERROR:  could not create locale "cs_CZ.utf8": No such file or directory  
DETAIL:  The operating system could not find any locale data for the locale name "cs_CZ.utf8".
```

Some features like sorting products by name in the products catalog require your database to contain specific collations in order to be able to sort by locale-specific rules.
Unfortunately, in PostgreSQL locales are operating system dependent, which means that they can be different on each system.
Shopsys Framework normalizes the names of locales present in different systems by creating new collations in the database.

However, if your operating system does not provide the required locales you can try:
* On Linux: Install additional locales to your system (eg. on Debian Linux this can be done by installing [locales-all](https://packages.debian.org/cs/stable/locales-all) package) and restart the database server.
* On Windows: Make sure you use PostgreSQL distribution that supports multiple locales. We recommend to use [EnterpriseDB PostgreSQL distribution](https://www.enterprisedb.com/downloads/postgres-postgresql-downloads#windows).
* Otherwise: The only other option is to create the database collation mentioned in the exception manually using a locale that your OS supports.
(Note: every OS should support special locale `"C"` or `"POSIX"`.)

### Phing target tests-db fails on test AdministratorRepositoryTest::testGetByValidMultidomainLogin
Error message:
```
1) Tests\ShopBundle\Database\Model\Administrator\AdministratorRepositoryTest::testGetByValidMultidomainLogin
Shopsys\ShopBundle\Model\Administrator\Security\Exception\InvalidTokenException: Administrator with valid multidomain login token validMultidomainLoginToken not found.

.../src/Shopsys/ShopBundle/Model/Administrator/AdministratorRepository.php:69
.../tests/ShopBundle/Database/Model/Administrator/AdministratorRepositoryTest.php:25
```

The problem is that your `timezone` setting in PostgreSQL and `date.timezone` in `php.ini` are different.

Currently, some features are dependent on the fact that time zones in database and PHP are the same. Please set them both to the same timezone.

Timezone used in PostgreSQL can be determined by running the following command:
```
psql --username postgres --dbname <database_name> --command "SHOW timezone"
```

Timezone for PHP can be set in your `php.ini` (usually located in `/etc/php.ini`) by configuration like:
```
date.timezone = "UTC"
```

### Still struggling with installation?
If you encountered any other problem during the installation please [file an issue](https://git.shopsys-framework.com/shopsys/shopsys-framework/issues/new) and we will help you.

Commit message:

acceptance tests can now be run via Docker
- added selenium-server container that runs Selenium hub with Google Chrome
- selenium server host is configurable in parameters_test.yml
- in order for selenium-server container to be able to access the application instance of Domain is created by DomainFactoryOverwritingDomainUrl in TEST environment
  - this factory creates Domain as usual but all provided instances of DomainConfig have their URL set to %overwrite_domain_url% (set in parameters_test.yml)
  - this URL overwriting can be switched off by setting %overwrite_domain_url% to ~ (null)

docs/introduction/installation-guide.md, after:

# Installation Guide
This guide provides instructions how to install Shopsys Framework on your local machine as a server.
If you would like to use a prepared Docker container instead go to [Installation Using Docker](installation-using-docker.md).

## Requirements
First of all, you need to install the following software on your system:

* [GIT](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
* [PostgreSQL 9.4](https://wiki.postgresql.org/wiki/Detailed_installation_guides) (On Windows OS, we recommend to use [EnterpriseDB PostgreSQL distribution](https://www.enterprisedb.com/downloads/postgres-postgresql-downloads#windows))
* [PHP 7.x](http://php.net/manual/en/install.php) (configure your `php.ini` by [Required PHP Configuration](required-php-configuration.md))
* [Composer](https://getcomposer.org/doc/00-intro.md#globally)
* [Node.js 4.x](https://nodejs.org/en/download/)
* [npm 2.x](https://nodejs.org/en/download/) (npm is automatically installed when you install Node.js)

*Note: The names link to the appropriate installation guide or download page.* 

After that, you can follow the steps below in order to install and configure Shopsys Framework.

## Steps
### 1. Get source code
```
git clone https://git.shopsys-framework.com/shopsys/shopsys-framework.git
cd shopsys-framework
```

### 2. Install dependencies and configure parameters
```
composer install
```

Composer will prompt you to set main parameters (`app/config/parameters.yml`):

| Name                              | Description                                                                   |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `database_host`                   | access data of your PostgreSQL database                                       |
| `database_port`                   | ...                                                                           |
| `database_name`                   | ...                                                                           |
| `database_user`                   | ...                                                                           |
| `database_password`               | ...                                                                           |
| `database_server_version`         | version of your PostgreSQL server                                             |
| `mailer_transport`                | access data of your mail server                                               |
| `mailer_host`                     | ...                                                                           |
| `mailer_user`                     | ...                                                                           |
| `mailer_password`                 | ...                                                                           |
| `mailer_disable_delivery`         | set to `true` if you don't want to send any e-mails                           |
| `mailer_master_email_address`     | set if you want to send all e-mails to one address (useful for development)   |
| `mailer_delivery_whitelist`       | set if you want to have master e-mail but allow sending to specific addresses |
| `error_reporting_email_to`        | e-mail address that will be used as recipient for error reports               |
| `error_reporting_email_from`      | e-mail address that will be used as sender for error reports                  |
| `secret`                          | randomly generated secret token                                               |

Composer will then prompt you to set parameters for testing environment (`app/config/parameters_test.yml`):

| Name                              | Description                                                                   |
| --------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `test_database_host`              | access data of your PostgreSQL database for tests                             |
| `test_database_port`              | ...                                                                           |
| `test_database_name`              | ...                                                                           |
| `test_database_user`              | ...                                                                           |
| `overwrite_domain_url`            | overwrites URL of all domains for acceptance testing (set to `~` to disable)  |
| `selenium_server_host`            | with native installation the selenium server is on `localhost`                |
| `test_database_password`          | ...                                                                           |
| `test_mailer_transport`           | access data of your mail server for tests                                     |
| `test_mailer_host`                | ...                                                                           |
| `test_mailer_user`                | ...                                                                           |
| `test_mailer_password`            | ...                                                                           |

#### Choose environment type
For development choose `n` when asked `Build in production environment? (Y/n)`.

It will set the environment in your application to `dev` (this will, for example, show Symfony Web Debug Toolbar).

### 3. Configure domains
Create `domains_urls.yml` from `domains_urls.yml.dist`.
```
cp app/config/domains_urls.yml.dist app/config/domains_urls.yml
```
### 4. Create databases
```
php phing db-create
php phing test-db-create
```
### 5. Build application
```
php phing build-demo-dev
php phing img-demo
```
**For solutions to commonly encountered problems during build see section [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) below or you might want to check [Required PHP Configuration](required-php-configuration.md).**

*Tip: See introduction into [Phing Targets](phing-targets.md) to learn how can you easily accomplish some common tasks.*

### 6. Run integrated HTTP server
```
php bin/console server:run
```
*Note: If you did not use default domain URLs in step 4 you should run `php bin/console server:run <your-domain-address>`.*

### 7. See it in your browser!
Open [http://127.0.0.1:8000/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/) to see running application.

You can also login into the administration section on [http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/) with default credentials:
* Username: `admin` or `superadmin` (the latter has access to advanced options)
* Password: `admin123`

## Troubleshooting
Here are some issues you may encounter during installation and how to solve them: 

### Phing target db-drop fails because database user is not an owner of schema "public"
Error message:
```
[Doctrine\DBAL\Exception\DriverException]
An exception occurred while executing 'DROP SCHEMA IF EXISTS public CASCADE':
SQLSTATE[42501]: Insufficient privilege: 7 ERROR:  must be owner of schema public
```

Default owner of schema `public` in any new database is user `postgres`.

In order to enable Phing to drop schema `public` you must change the ownership of public schema in your database by running the following command:
```
psql --username postgres --dbname <database_name> --command "ALTER SCHEMA public OWNER TO <database_user>"
psql --username postgres --dbname <test_database_name> --command "ALTER SCHEMA public OWNER TO <database_user>"
```

### Phing target db-create fails on MissingLocaleException
Error message:
```
[Shopsys\ShopBundle\Command\Exception\MissingLocaleException]                                                                                    
It looks like your operating system does not support locale "cs_CZ.utf8". Please visit docs/introduction/installation-guide.md for more details.

[Doctrine\DBAL\Exception\DriverException]                                                                           
An exception occurred while executing 'CREATE COLLATION pg_catalog."cs_CZ" (LOCALE="cs_CZ"."utf8")':                  
SQLSTATE[22023]: Invalid parameter value: 7 ERROR:  could not create locale "cs_CZ.utf8": No such file or directory  
DETAIL:  The operating system could not find any locale data for the locale name "cs_CZ.utf8".
```

Some features like sorting products by name in the products catalog require your database to contain specific collations in order to be able to sort by locale-specific rules.
Unfortunately, in PostgreSQL locales are operating system dependent, which means that they can be different on each system.
Shopsys Framework normalizes the names of locales present in different systems by creating new collations in the database.

However, if your operating system does not provide the required locales you can try:
* On Linux: Install additional locales to your system (eg. on Debian Linux this can be done by installing [locales-all](https://packages.debian.org/cs/stable/locales-all) package) and restart the database server.
* On Windows: Make sure you use PostgreSQL distribution that supports multiple locales. We recommend to use [EnterpriseDB PostgreSQL distribution](https://www.enterprisedb.com/downloads/postgres-postgresql-downloads#windows).
* Otherwise: The only other option is to create the database collation mentioned in the exception manually using a locale that your OS supports.
(Note: every OS should support special locale `"C"` or `"POSIX"`.)

### Phing target tests-db fails on test AdministratorRepositoryTest::testGetByValidMultidomainLogin
Error message:
```
1) Tests\ShopBundle\Database\Model\Administrator\AdministratorRepositoryTest::testGetByValidMultidomainLogin
Shopsys\ShopBundle\Model\Administrator\Security\Exception\InvalidTokenException: Administrator with valid multidomain login token validMultidomainLoginToken not found.

.../src/Shopsys/ShopBundle/Model/Administrator/AdministratorRepository.php:69
.../tests/ShopBundle/Database/Model/Administrator/AdministratorRepositoryTest.php:25
```

The problem is that your `timezone` setting in PostgreSQL and `date.timezone` in `php.ini` are different.

Currently, some features are dependent on the fact that time zones in database and PHP are the same. Please set them both to the same timezone.

Timezone used in PostgreSQL can be determined by running the following command:
```
psql --username postgres --dbname <database_name> --command "SHOW timezone"
```

Timezone for PHP can be set in your `php.ini` (usually located in `/etc/php.ini`) by configuration like:
```
date.timezone = "UTC"
```

### Still struggling with installation?
If you encountered any other problem during the installation please [file an issue](https://git.shopsys-framework.com/shopsys/shopsys-framework/issues/new) and we will help you.
