docs/introduction/installation-using-docker-application-setup.md, before:

# Installation Using Docker - application setup

This guide expects that you have already set up your Docker environment. Otherwise check one of these guides:
- [Installation via Docker on Linux and MacOS (recommended)](docs/introduction/installation-using-docker-linux-macos.md)
- [Installation via Docker on Windows 10 Pro and higher](docs/introduction/installation-using-docker-windows-10-pro-higher.md)
- [Installation via Docker on Windows 10 Home, 8, 8.1, 7](docs/introduction/installation-using-docker-windows-10-lower.md)

## 1. Setup the application
Now that the Docker environment is prepared we can setup the application itself.

### 1.1. Connect into terminal of the Docker container
```
docker exec -it shopsys-framework-php-fpm bash
```

### 1.2. Install dependencies and configure parameters
```
composer install
```

Composer will prompt you to set parameters ([description of parameters](installation-guide.md#2-install-dependencies-and-configure-parameters)):

Important parameters to set for `app/config/parameters.yml` are listed bellow (the others can be set to default - just press Enter):

| parameter name             | parameter name             |
| -------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| database_host              | postgres                   |
| database_port              | 5432                       |
| database_name              | shopsys                    |
| database_user              | root                       |
| database_password          | root                       |
| ...                        | ...                        |
| mailer_host                | smtp-server                |

Important parameters to set for `app/config/parameters_test.yml` are listed bellow (the others can be set to default - just press Enter):

| parameter name             | parameter value            |
| -------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| test_database_host         | postgres                   |
| test_database_port         | 5432                       |
| test_database_name         | shopsys-test               |
| test_database_user         | root                       |
| test_database_password     | root                       |
| selenium_server_host       | selenium-server            |
| overwrite_domain_url       | http://webserver:8080/     |

For development choose `n` when asked `Build in production environment? (Y/n)`.

It will set the environment in your application to `dev` (this will, for example, show Symfony Web Debug Toolbar).

### 1.3. Configure domains
Create `domains_urls.yml` from `domains_urls.yml.dist`.

```
cp app/config/domains_urls.yml.dist app/config/domains_urls.yml
```

### 1.4. Create databases
```
./phing db-create
./phing test-db-create
```

### 1.5. Build the application
```
./phing build-demo-dev
./phing img-demo
```

## 2. See it in your browser!

### On Linux, MacOS and Windows 10 Pro and higher
Open [http://127.0.0.1:8000/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/) to see running application.

You can also login into the administration section on [http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/) with default credentials:
* Username: `admin` or `superadmin` (the latter has access to advanced options)
* Password: `admin123`

You can also manage the application database using [Adminer](https://www.adminer.org) by going to [http://127.0.0.1:1100](http://127.0.0.1:1100).

### On Windows 10 Home, 8, 8.1, 7 (using Docker Toolbox)
Open [http://192.168.99.100:8000/](http://192.168.99.100:8000/) to see running application.

You can also login into the administration section on [http://192.168.99.100:8000/admin/](http://192.168.99.100:8000/admin/) with default credentials:
* Username: `admin` or `superadmin` (the latter has access to advanced options)
* Password: `admin123`

You can also manage the application database using [Adminer](https://www.adminer.org) by going to [http://192.168.99.100:1100](http://192.168.99.100:1100).

Commit message:

default parameters changed for application running in Docker
- parameters in parameters.yml.dist and parameters_test.yml.dist contain configuration of Docker application

docs/introduction/installation-using-docker-application-setup.md, after:

# Installation Using Docker - application setup

This guide expects that you have already set up your Docker environment. Otherwise check one of these guides:
- [Installation via Docker on Linux and MacOS (recommended)](docs/introduction/installation-using-docker-linux-macos.md)
- [Installation via Docker on Windows 10 Pro and higher](docs/introduction/installation-using-docker-windows-10-pro-higher.md)
- [Installation via Docker on Windows 10 Home, 8, 8.1, 7](docs/introduction/installation-using-docker-windows-10-lower.md)

## 1. Setup the application
Now that the Docker environment is prepared we can setup the application itself.

### 1.1. Connect into terminal of the Docker container
```
docker exec -it shopsys-framework-php-fpm bash
```

### 1.2. Install dependencies and configure parameters
```
composer install
```

Composer will prompt you to set parameters ([description of parameters](installation-guide.md#2-install-dependencies-and-configure-parameters)).
The default parameters are currently set for application running in Docker so you can just use the defaults.

Only exception is the `secret` parameter - you should input a random string to be used for security purposes.
It is not necessary for development though.

For development choose `n` when asked `Build in production environment? (Y/n)`.

It will set the environment in your application to `dev` (this will, for example, show Symfony Web Debug Toolbar).

### 1.3. Configure domains
Create `domains_urls.yml` from `domains_urls.yml.dist`.

```
cp app/config/domains_urls.yml.dist app/config/domains_urls.yml
```

### 1.4. Create databases
```
./phing db-create
./phing test-db-create
```

### 1.5. Build the application
```
./phing build-demo-dev
./phing img-demo
```

## 2. See it in your browser!

### On Linux, MacOS and Windows 10 Pro and higher
Open [http://127.0.0.1:8000/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/) to see running application.

You can also login into the administration section on [http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/](http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/) with default credentials:
* Username: `admin` or `superadmin` (the latter has access to advanced options)
* Password: `admin123`

You can also manage the application database using [Adminer](https://www.adminer.org) by going to [http://127.0.0.1:1100](http://127.0.0.1:1100).

### On Windows 10 Home, 8, 8.1, 7 (using Docker Toolbox)
Open [http://192.168.99.100:8000/](http://192.168.99.100:8000/) to see running application.

You can also login into the administration section on [http://192.168.99.100:8000/admin/](http://192.168.99.100:8000/admin/) with default credentials:
* Username: `admin` or `superadmin` (the latter has access to advanced options)
* Password: `admin123`

You can also manage the application database using [Adminer](https://www.adminer.org) by going to [http://192.168.99.100:1100](http://192.168.99.100:1100).
